Info gathered from previous meetings in relation to PETRA API.

MEETING 121 -------------------------------------

Dean Bogdanovic: Fully support providing APIs that can help traffic
engineering; please keep it simple; don't talk about carbon
optimization; we have no way to know the carbon intensity of the power
at the moment; we change carbon footprints of power on the fly; some of
this happens out of band in analog ways (like phone calls); it will not
be so precise to determine the green-ness of energy

Srihari Sangli: Paths change dynamically; is it even feasible to compute
power consumption by path and keep it accurate?

Alberto: We hope so, but this is to be explored

Key aspects: Keep it simple, the api is envisioned to be used in SD-WAN to act as a mediator between the overlay network and underlay network so that the overlay network knows about the energy consumption of the underlay network, from that different scenarios such as acting on that information to decide a path can be taken. Another scenario is connecting L3 to L1... Is it even possible to compute power consumption by path, because paths change dinamycally.


MEETING 123 ----------------------------------------------

Diego: Can this be generalized to a general querying API for path information? Not just focussed on the radio.

Alberto: Addressing a challenge that we have seen? Is this in scope for GREEN?

Rob: We need to check with Mahesh, because this work seems to be at the edge of GREEN scope

Benoît (chat): Just very quickly browsed draft-petra-green-api. I understand Diego’s question. Isn’t it a generic north bound API, use case specific. A kind of “abstractions” if I want to speak the ONIONS language? Are those use case specific APIs in scope? If yes, were do we stop?

Marisol Palmero (chat): My understanding is that if we consider under use cases end to end use cases, like video streaming, we should consider such an API to understand the energy from the E2E (for instance, optical path + IP )

Rob(chat): Marisol, I think that I agree. The question I have is whether this should be covered by a core model in the first phase, or if this is a more advanced solution that should follow on afterwards?

Marisol Palmero(chat): that point I agree, I think it should be part of GREEN even if this is postponed

Diego (chat): That was my idea when I asked Alberto

The API is agnostic to the underlay infrastructure


MEETING 124 --------------------------------------------------------------------

Consider other endpoints other than ip addresses end points.
May be too son to incorporate with the green framework.
To be for the consumer not only corporative.
Clarification on where does PETRA act in the GREEN Framework.

Rob: Are you looking for adoption?

    Luis: Not yet. We could wait till the core model consolidates
    Med: The work can progress, including the alignment with the core model
    Luis/Rob: This is the intent

Diego: Please elaborate on the choice of units

    Luis: Based on the kind of use cases we are considering, but open to how the core model evolves, and willing to contribute to the discussion on units


